{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil Calibri;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset238 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\b\f0\fs28\lang9 PROJECT NAME: \b0 Data analytics - Smart lender-  Applicant Credibility   for Loan approval\par
\b TEAM MEMBERS:\b0\par
                                1.  M.POOJA (Team Leader)\par
                                2. G.MOHANAPRIYA\par
                                3. R.SIVASATHYA\par
                                4. M.YUVARANI\b\par
INTRODUCTION:\par
\i\fs24 SMART CREDIBILITY FOR LOAN APPROVAL \b0\i0\fs22 is a project used in banks for the loan approval and majorly used in the vehicle and housing loans. Recently this process is speeded up due to the developed and economical survey in India. Not only in India but also in other parts of the world too. These project gives a great exposure to the different banks that may be Nationalised banks and Centralised Banks .\par
\b\fs28 LITERATURE SURVEY\b0\fs22 :\par
                                           A recent development of machine learning techniques and data mining has led to an interest of implementing these  techniques in various fields . The banking sector is no exclusion and the increasing requirements towards financial institutions to have robust risk management has led to an interest of developing current methods of risk estimation. \par
Potentially, the implementation of machine learning techniques could lead to better quantification of the financial risks that banks are exposed to. Within the credit risk area, there has been a continuous development of the Basel accords, which provides frameworks for supervisory standards and risk management techniques as a guideline for banks to manage and quantify their risks.\par
 From Basel II, two approaches are presented for quantifying the minimum capital requirement such as the standardized approach and the internal ratings based approach (IRB) . There are different risk measures banks consider in order to estimate the potential loss they may carry in future. One of these measures is the expected loss (EL) a bank would carry in case of a defaulted customer. One of the components involved in EL estimation  is the probability if a certain customer will default or not. \par
Customers in default means that they did not meet their contractual obligations and potentially might not be able to repay their loans . Thus, there is an interest of acquiring a model that can predict defaulted customers.\par
 A technique that is widely used for estimating the probability of client default is Logistic Regression . In this thesis, a set of machine learning methods will be investigated and studied in order to test if they can challenge the traditionally applied techniques.\par
 A prediction is a statement about what someone thinks will happen in the future. People make predictions all the time. Some are very serious and are based on scientific calculations, but many are just guesses. \par
Prediction helps us in many things to guess what will happen after some time or after a year or after ten years. Predictive analytics is a branch of advanced analytics that uses many techniques from data mining, statistics, modeling, machine learning, and artificial intelligence to analyze current data to make predictions. \par
\ldblquote Adyan Nur Alfiyatin, Hilman Taufiq  and their friends work on the house price prediction. They use regression analysis and Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO) to predict house price\rdblquote . One other similar work on the Mohamed El Mohadab, Belaid Bouikhalene  and Said Safi to predict the rank for scientific research paper using supervised learning. Kumar Arun, Garg Ishan and Kaur Sanmeet work on bank loan prediction on how to bank approve a loan. \par
They proposed a model with the help of SVM and Neural networks like machine learning algorithms. This literature review helps us carry out our work and propose a reliable bank loan prediction model.  Manjeet et al (2018) there are seven types of variables that may influence consumer loan default; consumer\rquote s  annual income, debt-income ratio, occupation, home ownership, work duration.\par
 In a work by Steenackers and Goovaerts, the key factors that may influence loan default are borrower\rquote s age,location, resident/work duration, owner of phone, monthly income, loan duration, whether or not applicant works in a public sector, house ownership and loan numbers. \par
Another study by Ali Bangher pour on a large dataset within the period of 2001-2006 indicated that loan age was the most important factor when predicting loan default while market loan-to-value was the most effective factor for mortgage loan applications. \par
In addition to identifying factors that may influence loaned fault, there is also a need to build robust and effective machine learning models that can help capture important patterns in credit data.\par
 The choice of model so great importance as the chosen model plays a crucial role in determining accuracy, precision and efficiency of a prediction system. Numerous models have been used for loan default prediction and although there is no one optimal model, some models definitely do better than others.\par
 In 2019, Vimala and Sharmili proposed a loan prediction model using and Support Vector Machines(SVM)methods. Na\'efve Bayes, an independent speculation approach, encompasses probability theory regarding the data classification. \par
On the other hand, SVM uses statistical learning model for classification of predictions. Dataset from UCI repository with 21 attributes was adopted to evaluate the proposed method.\par
Experimentations concluded that, rather than individual performances of classifiers (NB and SVM), the integration of NB and SVM resulted in an efficient classification of loan prediction. In 2019, Jency, Sumathi and Shiva Sri  proposed an Exploratory Data Analysis(EDA) regarding the loan prediction procedure based on the client\lquote s nature and their requirements.\par
 The major factors concentrated during the data analysis were annual income versus loan purpose, customer \lquote s trust, loan tenure versus delinquent months, loan tenure versus credit category, loan tenure versus number of years in the current job, and chances for loan repayment versus the house ownership. \par
Finally, the outcome of the present work was to infer the constraints on the customer who are applying for the loan followed by the prediction regarding the repayment. Further, results showed that, the customers were interested more on availing short-tenure  loans rather than long-tenure loans. In 2019, Supriya, Pavani, Saisushma, Vimala Kumari and Vikas  presented a ML based loan prediction model.\par
 The modules in the present approach were data collection and pre-processing, applying the ML models, training followed by testing the data. During the pre-processing stage, the detection and removal of outliers and imputation removal processing were carried out. In the present method, SVM, DT, KNN and gradient boosting models were employed to predict the possibilities of current status regarding the loan approval process.\par
 The conventional 80:20 rule was adopted to split the dataset into training and testing processes. Experimentation concluded that, DT has significantly higher loan prediction accuracy than the other models.\par
 In 2017, Goyal and Kaur presented a loan prediction model using several Machine Learning (ML) algorithms. The dataset with features, namely, gender, marital status, education, number of dependents, employment status, income, co applicant\lquote s income, loan amount, loan tenure, credit history, existing loan status, and property area, are used for determining the loan eligibility regarding the loan sanctioning process. Various ML models adopted in the present method includes, Linear model, Decision Tree (DT), Neural Network (NN), Random Forest (RF), SVM, Extreme learning machines, Model tree, Multivariate Adaptive Regression Splines, Bagged Cart Model, NB and TGA. When evaluated these models using Environment in five runs, TGA resulted in better loan forecasting performance than the other methods.\par
 In 2016, Aboobyda Jafar Hamid and Tarig Mohammed Ahmed presented a loan risk prediction model based on the data mining techniques, such as Decision Tree (J48), Na\'efve Bayes (NB) and BayseNet approaches. The procedure followed was training set preparation, building the model, Applying the model and finally. Evaluating the accuracy.\par
This approach was implemented using Weka Tool and considered a dataset with eight attributes, namely, gender, job,age, credit amount, credit history, purpose, housing, and class. Evaluating these models on the dataset, experimental results concluded that, J48 based loan prediction approach resulted in better accuracy than the other methods.\par
 In 2016, Kacheria, Shivakumar, Sawkar and Gupta  suggested a loan sanctioning prediction procedure based on NB approach integrated with K-Nearest Neighbor (KNN) and binning algorithms. The seven parameters considered were income, age, profession, existing loan with its tenure, amount and approval status. \par
The sub-processes include, Preprocessing (handling the missing values with KNN and data refinement using binning algorithm), Classification using IJARSCT ISSN (Online) 2581-9429  International Journal of Advanced Research in Science, Communication and Technology (IJARSCT)\par
NB approach and Updating the dataset frequently results in appropriate improvement in the loan prediction process.Experimentation put-forth the conclusion that, integration of KNN and binning algorithm with NB resulted in improved prediction of loan sanctioning process. \par
In 2016, Goyal and Kaur suggested an ensemble technique based loan prediction procedure for the customers. The sub processes in the present method includes, data collection, filtering the data, feature extraction, applying the model, and finally analysis the results. \par
The various loan prediction procedures implemented in the present method were Random Forest (RF), SVM and Tree model with Genetic Algorithm (TGA).\par
The parameters considered for evaluating the models were accuracy, Gini Coefficient, Area Under Curve (AUC), Receiver Operating Curve (ROC), Kolmogorov - Smirnov (KS) Chart, Minimum Cost - Weighted Error Rate, Minimum Error Rate, and K-Fold Cross Validation parameters. \par
Experimentation outcome concluded that the integration of three methods (RF, SVM and TGA) resulted in improved loan - prediction results rather than individual method \lquote s prediction. In 2006, Sudhamathy  suggested a risk analysis method in sanctioning a loan for the customers using R package.\par
 The various modules include data selection, pre-processing, feature extraction and selection, building the model, prediction followed by the evaluation. The dataset used for evaluation in this method was adopted from UCI repository. \par
To fine tune the prediction accuracy, the pre-processing operation includes the following sub-processes: detection, ranking and removal of outliers, removal of imputation, and balancing of dataset by proportional bifurcation regarding testing and training process. Further, feature selection process improves the prediction accuracy. \par
When evaluated, the DT model resulted in 94.3% prediction accuracy. The process of analyzing data from different perspectives and extracting useful knowledge from it. Tithe core of knowledge discovery process. \par
The various steps involved in extracting knowledge from raw data. Different data mining techniques include classification, clustering, association rule mining, prediction and sequential patterns, neural networks, regression etc. \par
Classification is the most commonly applied data mining technique, which employs a set of pre-classified examples to develop a model that can classify the population of records at large. Fraud detection and credit risk applications are particularly well suited to classification technique. \par
This approach frequently employs Decision tree based classification Algorithm. In classification, a training set is used to build the model as the classifier which can classify the data items into its appropriate classes. A test set is used to validate the model.\par
 \b\fs28 CONCLUSION:\b0\fs22\par
 This application is working properly and meeting to all Banker requirements. This component can be easily plugged in many other systems. It works correctly and fulfills all requirements of bankers and can be connected to many other systems.\par
 There were multiple malfunctions in the computers, content errors and fixing of weight in computerized prediction systems. In the near term, the banking software could be more reliable, accurate, and dynamic in nature and can be fit in with an automated processing unit. \par
There have been numbers cases of computer glitches, errors in content and most important weight of features is fixed in automated prediction system more secure, reliable and dynamic weight adjustment. \par
The system is trained on old training dataset in future software can be made such that new testing date should also take part in training data after some fix time. Machine learning helps to understand the factors which affect the specific outcomes most. \par
\par
 A recent development of machine learning techniques and data mining has led to an interest of implementing these\par
techniques in various fields [17]. The banking sector is no exclusion and the increasing requirements towards financial\par
institutions to have robust risk management has led to an interest of developing current methods of risk estimation.\par
Potentially, the implementation of machine learning techniques could lead to better quantification of the financial risks\par
that banks are exposed to. Within the credit risk area, there has been a continuous development of the Basel accords,\par
which provides frameworks for supervisory standards and risk management techniques as a guideline for banks to\par
manage and quantify their risks. From Basel II, two approaches are presented for quantifying the minimum capital\par
requirement such as the standardized approach and the internal ratings based approach (IRB) [16]. There are different\par
risk measures banks consider in order to estimate the potential loss they may carry in future. One of these measures is\par
the expected loss (EL) a bank would carry in case of a defaulted customer. One of the components involved in ELestimation\par
 is the probability if a certain customer will default or not. Customers in default means that they did not meet\par
their contractual obligations and potentially might not be able to repay their loans [18]. Thus, there is an interest of\par
acquiring a model that can predict defaulted customers. A technique that is widely used for estimating the probability of\par
client default is Logistic Regression [19]. In this thesis, a set of machine learning methods will be investigated and\par
studied in order to test if they can challenge the traditionally applied techniques.\par
 A prediction is a statement about what someone thinks will happen in the future. People make predictions all the time.\par
Some are very serious and are based on scientific calculations, but many are just guesses. Prediction helps us in many\par
things to guess what will happen after some time or after a year or after ten years. Predictive analytics is a branch of\par
advanced analytics that uses many techniques from data mining, statistics, modeling, machine learning, and artificial\par
intelligence to analyze current data to make predictions. \ldblquote Adyan Nur Alfiyatin, Hilman Taufiq [14] and their friends\par
work on the house price prediction. They use regression analysis and Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO) to predict\par
house price\rdblquote . One other similar work on the Mohamed El Mohadab, Belaid Bouikhalene [15] and Said Safi to predict\par
the rank for scientific research paper using supervised learning. Kumar Arun, Garg Ishan and Kaur Sanmeet [13] work\par
on bank loan prediction on how to bank approve a loan. They proposed a model with the help of SVM and Neural\par
networks like machine learning algorithms. This literature review helps us carry out our work and propose a reliable\par
bank loan prediction model.\par
 Manjeet et al (2018) [24] there are seven types of variables that may influence consumer loan default; consumer\rquote s\par
annual income, debt-income ratio, occupation, home ownership, work duration and whether or not consumer possesses\par
IJARSCT ISSN (Online) 2581-9429\par
 International Journal of Advanced Research in Science, Communication and Technology (IJARSCT)\par
Volume 5, Issue 1, May 2021\par
Copyright to IJARSCT DOI: 10.48175/IJARSCT-1168 451\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK www.ijarsct.co.in }}{\fldrslt{www.ijarsct.co.in\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22\par
 Impact Factor: 4.819\par
a saving/checking account.\par
 In a work by Steenackers [26] and Goovaerts, the key factors that may influence loan default are borrower\rquote s age,\par
location, resident/work duration, owner of phone, monthly income, loan duration, whether or not applicant works in a\par
public sector, house ownership and loan numbers. Another study by Ali Bangher pour [27] on a large dataset within the\par
period of 2001-2006 indicated that loan age was the most important factor when predicting loan default while market\par
loan-to-value was the most effective factor for mortgage loan applications. In addition to identifying factors that may\par
influence loaned fault, there is also a need to build robust and effective machine learning models that can help\par
capture important patterns in credit data. The choice of model so great importance as the chosen model plays a crucial\par
role in determining accuracy, precision and efficiency of a prediction system. Numerous models have been used for\par
loan default prediction and although there is no one optimal model, some models definitely do better than others.\par
 In 2019, Vimala and Sharmili [1] proposed a loan prediction model using and Support Vector\par
Machines(SVM)methods. Na\'efve Bayes, an independent speculation approach, encompasses probability theory\par
regarding the data classification. On the other hand, SVM uses statistical learning model for classification of\par
predictions. Dataset from UCI repository with 21 attributes was adopted to evaluate the proposed method.\par
Experimentations concluded that, rather than individual performances of classifiers (NB and SVM), the integration of\par
NB and SVM resulted in an efficient classification of loan prediction. In 2019, Jency, Sumathi and Shiva Sri [2]\par
proposed an Exploratory Data Analysis(EDA) regarding the loan prediction procedure based on the client\lquote s nature and\par
their requirements. The major factors concentrated during the data analysis were annual income versus loan purpose,\par
customer \lquote s trust, loan tenure versus delinquent months, loan tenure versus credit category, loan tenure versus number\par
of years in the current job, and chances for loan repayment versus the house ownership. Finally, the outcome of the\par
present work was to infer the constraints on the customer who are applying for the loan followed by the prediction\par
regarding the repayment. Further, results showed that, the customers were interested more on availing short-tenure\par
loans rather than long-tenure loans. In 2019, Supriya, Pavani, Saisushma, Vimala Kumari and Vikas [3] presented a\par
ML based loan prediction model. Themodulesin the present approach were data collection and pre-processing, applying\par
the ML models, training followed by testing the data. During the pre-processing stage, the detection and removal of\par
outliers and imputation removal processing were carried out. In the present method, SVM, DT, KNN and gradient\par
boosting models were employed to predict the possibilities of current status regarding the loan approval process. The\par
conventional 80:20 rule was adopted to split the dataset into training and testing processes. Experimentation concluded\par
that, DT has significantly higher loan prediction accuracy than the other models.\par
 In 2017, Goyal and Kaur [4] presented a loan prediction model using several Machine Learning (ML) algorithms. The\par
dataset with features, namely, gender, marital status, education, number of dependents, employment status, income, co\par
applicant\lquote s income, loan amount, loan tenure, credit history, existing loan status, and property area, are used for\par
determining the loan eligibility regarding the loan sanctioning process. Various ML models adopted in the present\par
method includes, Linear model, Decision Tree (DT), Neural Network (NN), Random Forest (RF), SVM, Extreme\par
learning machines, Model tree, Multivariate Adaptive Regression Splines, Bagged Cart Model, NB and TGA. When\par
evaluated these models using Environment in five runs, TGA resulted in better loan forecasting performance than the\par
other methods.\par
 In 2016, Aboobyda Jafar Hamid and Tarig Mohammed Ahmed [5] presented a loan risk prediction model based on the\par
data mining techniques, such as Decision Tree (J48), Na\'efve Bayes (NB) and BayseNet approaches. The procedure\par
followed was training set preparation, building the model, Applying the model and finally. Evaluating the accuracy.\par
This approach was implemented using Weka Tool and considered a dataset with eight attributes, namely, gender, job,\par
age, credit amount, credit history, purpose, housing, and class. Evaluating these models on the dataset, experimental\par
results concluded that, J48 based loan prediction approach resulted in better accuracy than the other methods.\par
 In 2016, Kacheria, Shivakumar, Sawkar and Gupta [6] suggested a loan sanctioning prediction procedure based on NB\par
approach integrated with K-Nearest Neighbor (KNN) and binning algorithms. The seven parameters considered were\par
income, age, profession, existing loan with its tenure, amount and approval status. The sub-processes include, Preprocessing (handling the missing values with KNN and data refinement using binning algorithm), Classification using\par
IJARSCT ISSN (Online) 2581-9429\par
 International Journal of Advanced Research in Science, Communication and Technology (IJARSCT)\par
Volume 5, Issue 1, May 2021\par
Copyright to IJARSCT DOI: 10.48175/IJARSCT-1168 452\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK www.ijarsct.co.in }}{\fldrslt{www.ijarsct.co.in\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22\par
 Impact Factor: 4.819\par
NB approach and Updating the dataset frequently results in appropriate improvement in the loan prediction process.\par
Experimentation put-forth the conclusion that, integration of KNN and binning algorithm with NB resulted in improved\par
prediction of loan sanctioning process. In 2016, Goyal and Kaur [7] suggested an ensemble technique based loan\par
prediction procedure for the customers. The sub processes in the present method includes, data collection, filtering the\par
data, feature extraction, applying the model, and finally analysis the results. The various loan prediction procedures\par
implemented in the present method were Random Forest (RF), SVM and Tree model with Genetic Algorithm (TGA).\par
The parameters considered for evaluating the models were accuracy, Gini Coefficient, Area Under Curve (AUC),\par
Receiver Operating Curve (ROC), Kolmogorov - Smirnov (KS) Chart, Minimum Cost - Weighted Error Rate,\par
Minimum Error Rate, and K-Fold Cross Validation parameters. Experimentation outcome concluded that the\par
integration of three methods (RF, SVM and TGA) resulted in improved loan - prediction results rather than individual\par
method \lquote s prediction. In 2006, Sudhamathy [8] suggested a risk analysis method in sanctioning a loan for the customers\par
using R package. The various modules include data selection, pre-processing, feature extraction and selection, building\par
the model, prediction followed by the evaluation. The dataset used for evaluation in this method was adopted from UCI\par
repository. To fine tune the prediction accuracy, the pre-processing operation includes the following sub-processes:\par
detection, ranking and removal of outliers, removal of imputation, and balancing of dataset by proportional bifurcation\par
regarding testing and training process. Further, feature selection process improves the prediction accuracy. When\par
evaluated, the DT model resulted in 94.3% prediction accuracy. The process of analyzing data from different\par
perspectives and extracting useful knowledge from it. Tithe core of knowledge discovery process. The various steps\par
involved in extracting knowledge from raw data. Different data mining techniques include classification, clustering,\par
association rule mining, prediction and sequential patterns, neural networks, regression etc. Classification is the most\par
commonly applied data mining technique, which employs a set of pre-classified examples to develop a model that can\par
classify the population of records at large. Fraud detection and credit risk applications are particularly well suited to\par
classification technique. This approach frequently employs Decision tree based classification Algorithm. In\par
classification, a training set is used to build the model as the classifier which can classify the data items into its\par
appropriate classes. A test set is used to validate the model.\par
III. CONCLUSION\par
 This application is working properly and meeting to all Banker requirements. This component can be easily plugged\par
in many other systems. It works correctly and fulfills all requirements of bankers and can be connected to many other\par
systems. There were multiple malfunctions in the computers, content errors and fixing of weight in computerized\par
prediction systems. In the near term, the banking software could be more reliable, accurate, and dynamic in nature and\par
can be fit in with an automated processing unit. There have been numbers cases of computer glitches, errors in content\par
and most important weight of features is fixed in automated prediction system more secure, reliable and dynamic\par
weight adjustment. The system is trained on old training dataset in future software can be made such that new testing\par
date should also take part in training data after some fix time. Machine learning helps to understand the factors which\par
affect the specific outcomes most. Other models like neutral network and discriminate analysis can be used individually\par
or combined for enhancing reliability and accuracy prediction.\par
REFERENCES\par
[1]. S. Vimala, K.C. Sharmili, \f1\u8213?Prediction of Loan Risk using NB and Support Vector Machine\f2\u449?, International\par
Conference on Advancements in Computing Technologies (ICACT 2018), vol. 4, no. 2, pp. 110-113, 2018.\par
[2]. Pidikiti Supriya, Myneedi Pavani, Nagarapu Saisushma, Namburi Vimala Kumari, K. Vikas, \f1\u8213?Loan\par
Prediction by using Machine Learning.\par
[3]. X. Francis Jency, V.P.Sumathi, Janani Shiva Sri, \u8213?An Exploratory Data Analysis for Loan Prediction Based\par
on Nature of the Clients\f2\u449?, International Journal of Recent Technology and Engineering (IJRTE), Vol. 7, No.\par
48, pp. 176-179, 2018.\par
IJARSCT ISSN (Online) 258\f0 Other models like neutral network and discriminate analysis can be used individually or combined for enhancing reliability and accuracy prediction.\par
\b\fs28 REFERENCES:\b0\fs22\par
[1]. S. Vimala, K.C. Sharmili, \f1\u8213?Prediction of Loan Risk using NB and Support Vector Machine\f2\u449?, International\f0\lang1033  \f2\lang9 Conference on Advancements in Computing Technologies (ICACT 2018), vol. 4, no. 2, pp. 110-113, 2018.\par
[2]. Pidikiti Supriya, Myneedi Pavani, Nagarapu Saisushma, Namburi Vimala Kumari, K. Vikas, \f1\u8213?Loan\f0\lang1033  \f1\lang9 Prediction by using Machine Learning.\par
[3]. X. Francis Jency, V.P.Sumathi, Janani Shiva Sri, \u8213?An Exploratory Data Analysis for Loan Prediction Based\f0\lang1033  \f1\lang9 on Nature of the Clients\f2\u449?, International Journal of Recent Technology and Engineering (IJRTE), Vol. 7, No.48, pp. 176-179, 2018.\par
\par
}
 